# Contribution 101

Welcome on board, Doctor!

We are delighted to see that you want to send your contribution(s) to be merged into this repository.

However, as we are a small team & work on voluntary. Hence, in order to save time, I would like you to follow these things.

## Licensing

I know lots of people will not feel happy - this project, at its entirety, [uses AGPL v3 or later](https://github.com/arknights-vns/akvns.org/blob/main/LICENSE.md) with the SPDX ID of
`AGPL-3.0-or-later`.

There **WILL NOT** be any exception for this.

## Code of Conduct

I believe you have found yourself [the Code of Conduct](https://github.com/arknights-vns/akvns.org/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) in this repository.
  - TL;DR for that CoC: common sense.

## Editor of Choice

We use [JetBrains WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/) as the **first-class IDE** for this project - and [include respective configuration in the worktree](https://github.com/arknights-vns/akvns.org/tree/main/.idea).

In case you can not afford a commercial license, or your PC is potato: anything that implements [LSP specification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_Server_Protocol) is the bare minimum.

## Our stance on Generative AI ("GenAI" hereafter)

We **DO NOT** accept contributions generated by LLMs ("Large Language Models"), sometimes also referred to as "AI" or "Generative AI". Any content submitted that is clearly labelled as LLM-generated
(including issues, PR code, PR briefing and PR comment) will be immediately closed and the author will be banned organization-wide without prior notice.

## Code contributions

- We do not require a PR to be linked with an issue, however, having one is a nice QoL shall we?

- Make sure you use the search box to check for existing PR and/or issues.

- We always use the **lowest** of the Node.js LTS versions - at the time of writing, Node 22 & 24 - that means we will use Node 22 as baseline.

- When in doubt, Docker could be your friend.

### Code Contribution Authority

We use the same terms as [The Linux Foundation's "Developer Certificate of Origin"](https://developercertificate.org/)

## Docker contributions (in case there is one)

- Make sure the image is in public registry (`hub.docker.com`, `ghcr.io`, `quay.io`, to name a few) and not behind auth.

- Try to avoid lock-in as much as you can, [you know the Bitnami drama right?](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/issues/35164).

## Git contributions

- Each commit should do single thing.
  - Or, you can do multiple things, just keep it small.

- We **DO NOT** use Conventional Commit for commit messages. Write like you write as a human.
  - We (mostly) use simple present tense for action.

  - We (mostly) start with lower case word, and ends with a period.

  - We are not a professional team so joking is allowed _where appropriate_, just don't make it like the mental asylum.

- The headline should be short (~70-80 characters), everything else should be written after a double-newline for clarity.

### Good

```txt
apply automatic S3 environment loader.

required by AWS upstream.

- so that Next.js will not complain inside Server Actions.

- so that AWS S3 SDK would not complain about broken IAM.
```

### Bad - for the love of god, please don't do this

```txt
fix(cms): applied auth check in /api/auth, /api/auth/discord, modified testimonial part of the landing page, use purple primary for TailwindCSS, and changed the constant of Math.PI to 3.41
```
